README.adoc, before:

= @dotcircle/transformer-asciidoc
v0.0.1, April 30, 2020

> Asciidoc transformer for Gridsome with link:https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor.js/[Asciidoc.js].

This transformer is heavily based on the
link:https://github.com/gridsome/gridsome/tree/master/packages/transformer-remark[@gridsome/transformer-remark]
transformer, in fact it uses there code as a starting point.

== Install

- `yarn add @dotcircle/transformer-asciidoc`
- `npm install @dotcircle/transformer-asciidoc`

== Basic usage

The transformer is automatically used if installed in your project. Custom transformer options can either be set for
each source plugin or globally.

[source, js]
----
//gridsome.config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      use: '@gridsome/source-filesystem',
      options: {
        path: 'blog/**/*.adoc',
        typeName: 'Post',
        route: '/blog/:doctitle',
        asciidoc: {
          // asciidoc options
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  transformers: {
    asciidoc: {
      // global asciidoc options
    }
  }
}
----

To exclude partials, add a ignore option to the path parameter.

[source, js]
----
//gridsome.config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      use: '@gridsome/source-filesystem',
      options: {
        /*
         * Ignoring the content/blog/_partials directory
         * Note that the order is important and the ignore in this case should come after the include glob.
         * If the include glob would come last, it would include the _partials again
         */
        path: ['content/blog/**/*.adoc', '!content/blog/_partials/**/*'],
        typeName: 'Blog',
        route: '/blog/:doctitle',
        asciidoc: {},
      },
    }
  ]
}
----

Commit message:

feat: add prism syntax highlighting

README.adoc, after:

= @dotcircle/transformer-asciidoc
v0.0.1, April 30, 2020

> Asciidoc transformer for Gridsome with link:https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor.js/[Asciidoc.js].

This transformer is heavily based on the
link:https://github.com/gridsome/gridsome/tree/master/packages/transformer-remark[@gridsome/transformer-remark]
transformer, in fact it uses there code as a starting point.

== Install

- `yarn add @dotcircle/transformer-asciidoc`
- `npm install @dotcircle/transformer-asciidoc`

== Basic usage

The transformer is automatically used if installed in your project. Custom transformer options can either be set for
each source plugin or globally.

[source, js]
----
//gridsome.config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      use: '@gridsome/source-filesystem',
      options: {
        path: 'blog/**/*.adoc',
        typeName: 'Post',
        route: '/blog/:doctitle',
        asciidoc: {
          // asciidoc options
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  transformers: {
    asciidoc: {
      // global asciidoc options
    }
  }
}
----

To exclude partials, add an ignore option to the path parameter.

[source, js]
----
//gridsome.config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      use: '@gridsome/source-filesystem',
      options: {
        /*
         * Ignoring the content/blog/_partials directory
         * Note that the order is important and the ignore in this case should come after the include glob.
         * If the include glob would come last, it would include the _partials again
         */
        path: ['content/blog/**/*.adoc', '!content/blog/_partials/**/*'],
        typeName: 'Blog',
        route: '/blog/:doctitle',
        asciidoc: {},
      },
    }
  ]
}
----

=== Syntax Highlighting

By default, the asciidoc transformer uses
link:https://github.com/oncletom/asciidoctor-prism-extension[asciidoctor-prism-extension] to enable code highlighting.

There is no stylesheet loaded automatically. You can bring your own css, or include one of the prism ones.
They can be included in the `main.js` any of your global css stylesheets or in the template, whichever you prefer.

.including a prism stylesheet globally in `main.js`
[source, js]
----
import 'prismjs/themes/prism.css';
----

To disable the default prism syntax highlighter, set the global transformer option `asciidoc.prism` to `false`

.disable prism syntax highlighting
[source, js]
----
module.exports = {
  transformers: {
    // global asciidoc options
    asciidoc: {
      prism: false,
    },
  }
}
----
